# 5 Comercial Applications of Word Embeddings
## Learn how AI is used to develop products that understand human language

Word embeddings are special, and revolutionary. The ability to process words and sentences as vectors and numbers unlocks a wide array of possibilities for data scientists, entrepenuers and corporations.

By combining simple mathematical operations like sum and substraction, synonyms and antonyms can be found. Analogies can be solved, biases detected and texts classified by topics.

Word embeddings create a vectorial space that are the basis of almost every neural network that involves text. And while the technology is less than 10 years old, it already permeates more of our daily life that you can imagine.


## 1. Search and Knowledge Graphs
Google search evolves constantly, and in recent years two notable developments have aroused. The first is the ability to answer questions disguised bas searched. Usually this involves presenting specific information from relevant websites. The second one is a proprietary knowledge graph, this means that when you search for a common term like the name of a person, a movie or sport news the query is is answered by Google's own micro-sites.

Part of this advances have been fueled by our transition to mobile first queries and increasing voices searches. But is also the result of Google's understanding of human knowledge. Years ago, searches were powered by keywords and links, this are still relevant but in addition Google uses their understanding of a website's content to imorove the accuracy of its results.

Mathematically, this can be thought as finding the closest points in a vectorial space. Think of the different websites as points in a dense dimensional space, or like a map of places. What Google does is to find the places (websites) that are closest to your query or search. AI question answering models, are also based on word embeddings and are readily available like this one featured in TensorflowJS.

## 2. Social Media Recommendations and Content Moderation
A similar technology is used by social networks to present to you content and ads to keep you engaged and buying the products. Suggestions are served based on the content you have previously interacted, and the measure of similarity is also partially attributed to the understanding of language, images and video.

Previously, social networks relied on hashtags, and follows to serve content. While they still largely do this, the truth it is no longer necessary. Now content and ads are served based on the expected engagement it will provoke.

Content moderation is a special case of this problem, going back to the vector space, or "word map" an AI agent can identify based on precious experiences the areas that are against the terms and condition of the network. When a post or content is detected to fall within the restricted area, different measures can be take against it, like banning it, showing a warning or reviewed manually.

## 3. Language Translation and Speech to Text Applications
Mathematically the problem of machine translation is very interesting, it starts with having two maps each representing a different language. Because the meaning expressed in each language is similar to the other. In theory, one could find a function that transforms a word in a language into the second language. Naturally, there are subtleties and grammars that may not be captured solely by word embeddings but they are still the basis that powers Machine Translation.

In the case of speech to text or also referred as Natural Language Understanding, an initial result is produced by audio decoding, but the final output is improved by word embeddings by reassuring that the output text is congruent with the context. Because of the complexity of both applications, simple vector mathematics may not be enough and instead rely on Differential Geometry, and Topology can be applied to find the required transformations.

## 4. User Research and Sentiment Analysis
Marketing is an imprescindible component of a business strategy, and to find leads for your product, and better understand the customer base hints can be drawn by using word embeddings and Natural Language Processing. Getting to know your users opens the possibility to segment users and offer products at different price tags, or with different functionality. Or to save time automatically qualifying and generating leads. This can be accomplished using the same technology to find the similarity between two points in a vector space, but other techniques like clustering, classification and supervised learning can be applied.

Sentiment Analysis can be used to aggregate customer reviews, or even make financial predictions based in news or politics. In finance, speed is everything and if a Machine can reach similar conclusions to a human in a fragment of the time this create a competitive advantage. For example, Sentiment Analysis can be used to read and classify lengthy documents regarding financial statements or political minutes.

## 5. Text Generation
As a final application, consider new functionality when drafting an email, as you type suggestions are presented as to what to write or even what to reply. In mobile phones, smart keyboards can predict our next words or autocorrect orthographic errors. Recent advances in Deep Learning have even enabled AI reporters powered by sophisticated models like GPT-3.

This technology is also used by chatbots, and semi intelligent agents that learn to communicate with us and save jobs for corporations. While the mathematics for text generation are among the most complex and involve generative adversarial and sequence to sequence networks. Once again, the inputs feed to these models are composed by word embeddings.


## Conclusion

The applications of word embeddings are the beginning of an important trend that has been compared to electricity. Consider this, the amount of power generated during the industrial revolution augmented productivity for workers and society. Bringing a better lifestyle, new luxuries, freeing time, and advancing science.

The work that one average person could do, was extended and the same can happen with word embeddings and Natural Language Processing. We need to relaize just how slow language is to transfer information. Especially in it's written form, to demonstrate this, think if how much time it takes to download a book or big text file and how much time it takes to read it. How many hours are spent learning, researching, finding content and even getting entertainment. If there was a way to speed this process, productive of workers, corporations, and society would increase brining new technologies, scientific advances and more opportunities to develop our creativity as humans.

As Andrew NG said, Artificial Intelligence is the new electricity.

---

*Thank you for reading, if you enjoyed the story, please consider following me for more content on AI, business and entrepeurship. As usual, your claps are appreciated!*
